hello I'm Anna Foster this is BBC News
live from Jerusalem the exit of foreign
citizens from Gaza has been stopped at
least temporarily no one has used the
crossing so far today and we're hearing
that border authorities will not permit
foreign passport holders to cross into
Egypt until the injured people in gaza's
hospitals are allowed to travel through
Rafa hundreds of foreign citizens have
escaped Gaza through the Rafa Crossing
into Egypt in the past few
days well meanwhile while the Diplomatic
efforts to relieve the humanitarian
crisis in Gaza are stepping up once
again the US Secretary of State Anthony
blinkin is in Aman meeting leaders from
Lebanon Qatar and from Jordan itself Mr
blinkin is pushing for pauses in the
fighting in Gaza the regional leaders
want an immediate ceasefire but the
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu insists there'll be no
temporary truce until all hostages who
are being held have been released while
in Gaza an official from the UN Agency
for Palestinian refugees G is warning
that there is less and less it can do to
protect people well the Hamas run Gaza
Health Ministry says
9,488 people have now been killed with
around 3,900 of them being children
around 1,400 Israelis were killed in the
Hamas attacks on the 7th of October the
health Ministry in Gaza also says at
least 12 people who were Sheltering in a
school were killed in an explosion there
on Friday night Hamas says the school
was bombed by Israel there's been no
comment yet from the Israel Defense
Forces while the UN Secretary General
and the World Health Organization have
both condemned Israel's attack on an
ambulance in Gaza on Friday the Israel
Defense Forces admitted striking the
ambulance but said that the vehicle was
being used by Hamas to transport
Fighters and the United States says it
believes the war between Israel and
Hamas is being contained and any broader
regional conflict has been deterred the
comments from the Pentagon follow the p
first public remarks from the leader of
the iranian-backed and lebanon-based
Hezbollah group who didn't commit his
thousands of Fighters to enter the
conflict well let's get the latest now
from our correspondent mark
loen four weeks on it's
unrelenting Israel has continued its
pounding of Gaza from the
ground and from the
air overnight it's says it killed what
it called Terror cells exiting some of
the many Hamas tunnels the target Israel
says is terrorists but civilians are
paying an Ever more disastrous price a
school in a refugee camp hit this
morning in what Palestinians say it was
an Israeli strike that killed at least
15 Israel hasn't commented most of these
pictures are too graphic to
show childhood innocence has been
destroyed too this boy says he w
witnessed three bombings here carrying
bodies with his own
hands hospitals and schools places of
Refuge no more Israel maintaining their
Hamas hideouts using civilians as human
Shields the roads are not safe the unra
schools which were used for any attack
in the past also as shelters are not
safe the self doesn't seem safe either
and the passage to the South wouldn't
seem safe
either as the war grinds on The American
Secretary of State arrived in Jordan
telling Regional leaders the US is
pushing for increased Aid despite
Israel's prime minister rejecting his
call for a humanitarian pause as Gaza
smolders so does Arab anger diplomacy
has failed to stop the
Bloodshed on the ground more foreign
passport holders have been leaving from
Gaza like 11-year-old Farah her American
passport a way out but her father left
behind my dad
told me to be safe and he hugged me and
he kissed my forehead because he's very
worried about
me and this is the devastation they
leave Gaza and its lives ripped apart
Israel hopes it will be Hamas itself
that will be flattened here but what
then well let's talk a little more about
that news that a hold has been put on
people with foreign passports leaving
Gaza through the Rafa Crossing into
Egypt let's speak to our BBC Arabic
correspondent Allah re and and Allah
what are we hearing about the situation
at Rafa has anybody crossed out of Gaza
into Egypt
today well um till this moment we've
been hearing that nobody um managed to
cross to the Egyptian side according to
uh Palestinian uh sources we have seen
uh the list that used to be issued um in
the past three days by the authorities
of Crossings in Gaza with around um 700
names including German British um and um
Egyptians for for the first time um all
of the all of these people hundreds of
them headed to the Border uh but the
gate didn't open uh according to sources
we talked to um from uh the crossings
authorities in the Palestinian side uh
there's some kind of um a condition they
are making it clear that they will not
allow the uh foreigners or dun Nationals
to cross to the Egyptian side till
there's some kind of coordination or
agreement about the safety of
transferring those uh injured severely
injured Palestinians to the Egyptian
side um this of course came after a day
uh when the Palestinian side or
Palestinian authorities accused the
Israeli um forces of um targeting uh a
convoy of ambulance uh ambulance in
front of alcha uh Hospital which killed
um around 15 uh in in this uh Convoy um
so far uh nobody crossed but we're still
watching if there will be some kind of
updates
there yeah it sounds like those
discussions are still going on doesn't
it those diplomatic negotiations do we
know what exactly is being asked for in
terms of the injured being allowed to
leave is it is it a certain number or do
we just not know that level of
detail well we don't know about the
criteria or the number the first day uh
in on Wednesday we heard that 81 will be
allowed to cross to Egypt or to be
transferred to Egyptian hospitals
according to Egyptian official numbers
only around 45 were allowed to Cross or
to be transferred to Egyptian um
hospitals we know that their identities
are checked uh and uh verified by the
security um Israeli security or Egyptian
Security to verify that they are not um
involved in the fighting they are uh
civilians um but we don't know about the
criteria why those but most of them uh
are severely injured um most of some of
them uh were children um
but you know um we don't know about the
criteria
itself all thank you allay correspondent
from BBC Arabic joining us there live
from Cairo uh We've also heard in the
last few hours that the Israeli military
uh opened one of gaza's two main
highways to allow traffic so people
could head south from the north of the
Gaza Strip this came in a social media
post written in Arabic saying that
traffic would be permitted between 1:
and 4:00 p.m. local time that's a window
that closes at the end of of this hour
the message said that Hamas leaders were
already protecting themselves and urged
civilians to do the same by heeding
instructions to move South away from the
fiercest of the fighting which is
happening in the north of the strip well
let's get the latest from Gaza our
correspondent rushi Abu alof is
there today Israel asked about half
million people who still living Gaza
City and the north to leave South here
to kanun the city is already overwhelmed
by about a million people who displaced
from their houses the reason the
fighting was intensified around the Gaza
City and it seems that the Israeli
operation is expanding and pushing the
people who still in Gaza to leave they
want the area to be evacuated ated
especially around the T Hawa area where
Al hospital is this morning there was an
a strike right in the front of the
hospital and they destroyed a building
causing big damage and big banic to
about 14,000 people who taking the
hospital as shelter Israel insisted they
should leave the director of the
hospital say we can't leave because most
of the road around the hospital were
destroyed and about 100 patient are
being treated inside eight of them were
connected to the life- saving machine
the biggest Israeli incursion so far is
in the north west of Gaza and they are
pushing hard towards Gaza City it seems
that the Israelis want to tighten the
siege around Gaza City itself and they
are pushing hard for the resident who
are still remain there to leave their
homes here to
kanun